cool hello everyone my name is Jay and
I'm one of the expert IELTS teachers
here at e2 language in this class we're
going to look at IELTS speaking and
we're going to do a full test simulation
in fact for part two we're going to do
two of them I'm going to be the IELTS
examiner you're going to be the student
you're going to do the full thing and I
want you to do this because you might be
thinking to yourself IELTS speaking
couldn't be that hard just have to chat
to the examiner just have to chat for
two minutes well you'll be surprised on
test day it's a whole different story
especially if you suffer from anxiety or
nervousness because all of a sudden when
that examiner hands you the task card
and says you have to speak about this
topic for two minutes
well it's something that we don't do
very often so I'm gonna give you a
strategy for how to do part two
effectively and we're also going to look
at the other parts as well so just while
we're on that let's do a quick overview
of IELTS speaking IELTS a it's called
the interview long turn and discussion
which goes for fourteen minutes in total
but I believe that there's a better way
to describe this which is small talk
tell three stories and discuss big ideas
these are the three things that you need
to do okay
so let's talk first about meeting the
examiner because that will happen the
examiner will sit you down and say
what's your full name and can I please
see your ID they are the two preliminary
questions when you start so please have
your passport with you then the examiner
will move into part one which is small
talk small talk look it's really quite
straightforward it's just to sort of it
is graded this section and each six-h
part becomes more difficult this one's
really quite straightforward there's a
little bit of a secret here though not
simply to elaborate or extend your
answers so when the examiner asks you
where are you from
don't just say Sri Lanka or France say
something like I'm from a
small town in the north of France in the
mountains which is on the border with
Switzerland something like that just
elaborate on your answers a little bit
show off this is about showing off your
language skills it's not about being shy
you're going to have to push through
your shyness and show off what you can
actually do and when the examiner says
do you study your work don't just say I
work say I work for a cool company
called e to language which is located in
Melbourne Australia however it's global
in its reach and what we do is prepare
people for English language exams
elaborate on your answers a little bit
cool then something strange will happen
and the examiner will ask you a question
that seems very off-topic
such as do you like flowers and you're
going to think to yourself well the
examiners gone crazy but this is what
the IELTS people do they ask you where
you're from and what you do and then do
you like going to the cinema and you
think what so just be prepared for that
change of topic and again just give a
more elaborate answer do you like
flowers well I would say yes I like
flowers in fact I'm a big fan of
gardening I think flowers are
particularly pretty I'm not very good at
giving them to my girlfriend however
something like that fine then you move
on to the difficult part which is part 2
and what I want you to do is to tell
three stories and we're going to look at
a strategy called IPPF so what's going
to happen is the examiner will hand you
a task card a piece of paper a topic you
will have one minute to prepare to speak
and then two minutes to talk about that
topic now this is a weird thing to do
and it's not something that we use in
conversation it is extremely rare for
one person to talk for two minutes about
a single topic unless you're telling a
story which is what I'm going to teach
you how to do here but you
definitely need to prepare for this
because when I did my IELTS and I did
this and I did get a nine for speaking I
must say two minutes is a very long time
for one person to sit and speak for it
feels like and it feels like an eternity
okay so you need to prepare so imagine
that the examiner hands you this task
card and it says talk about an email
that you received which you liked you
should say who sent it when you received
it what the content was and explained
why you liked it if you're feeling
adventurous you can pause the video over
here and just try to do this time
yourself for two minutes if you're on
YouTube but I can guarantee you're going
to find this extremely difficult okay so
we need a strategy we need a strategy
just before I get to that strategy I'm
just gonna check that everything's okay
everything's happening cool all right
good good good back to the strategy here
we go back to the strategy IPPF this is
the strategy the I I didn't put this in
stands for introduction but then past
present future so introduction past
present future this is how we're going
to battle this is how we're going to do
this effectively okay
so we look at our task card here about
talking about an email and we're going
to tell three stories a past story a
present story and a future story and
I'll tell you why in a second it says
talk about an email you received okay so
Jay from e2 language must be wrong
because it's saying talk about one email
that you received in the past you are
you allowed to talk off-topic the answer
is yes I'm gonna talk you through what
the IELTS examiner's are listening for
and how they grade you okay there are
four things they grade you on all kind
of five this one here is called fluency
we
is how smoothly you speak the other one
here is coherence which is how well you
connect your paragraphs together how
well-structured your speech is this one
lexical resource means vocabulary then
you've got grammar and you've got
pronunciation there is nothing here
about topic okay and in fact what I did
is I emailed an IELTS examiner and I
said to this guy I said hey I've got a
great strategy for IELTS speaking which
maximizes IELTS test scores is this okay
and he emailed back and he said to me
yes this is fine your strategy is really
good because the speaking questions are
not like the writing and being a little
tangential or speaking off topic is fine
if you're on YouTube you can pause this
and read the rest of it if you want but
basically this is evidence from an IELTS
examiner that this strategy I'm about to
teach you not only works but is is is
legal it's possible you're allowed to do
it it's intelligent it's smart
so let's have a look at it so you get
one minute preparation time and this is
extremely important before you start
talking for the two minutes and you want
to do this in the past recently in the
future these are your three time markers
for your three stories then on the piece
of paper you'll say well for me anyway
I'm talking about the email some
keywords so this is what I write down in
the one minute in the past South Korea
recently e to students future in the
future Robert Sapolsky that's all I
write down on my piece of paper in the
one minute preparation time in the past
recently in the future and then the
three key words that will remind me of
my three stories I'm going to tell a
past story about South Korea an email I
received about South Korea
my present story will be about e to
language students and my third story is
going to about an an email from a guy
called Robert Sapolsky that's all I need
to do write that down
I take a deep breath and I relax and I
wait for the IELTS examiner to say okay
you can begin fine and I'm gonna use an
introductory sentence this is the I so
I'll say today I would like to talk
about three different emails and
immediately the IELTS examiner's thingy
oh this person's interesting they've
obviously done their homework they've
got a structure in a strategy and I say
to the IELTS examiner this in the past I
received an email from the boss of a
South Korean university I received the
email because I had applied for a job
there and when the email appeared in my
inbox I knew that I either had the job
or I didn't so it was very exciting
needless to say that the email was good
news saying that I had been accepted to
teach at the University this was about
six or seven years ago now but I can
still remember it very clearly in my
mind because I had just finished my
teaching degree and I was desperate for
a job and to travel overseas so what
have I done here I've you I've told a
past story and I've triggered my mind to
use past tense verbs and told a past
tense story by using this phrase here in
the past and why is this good because
look at my verb tenses received received
had applied past perfect appear new had
didn't was was had been accepted I've
used a range of past tense verbs simple
past what else is in there past perfect
I've used some negatives some passives
and I've told a past story and the IELTS
examiner is looking at me and listening
to me and thinking well this guy is good
this guy is good and and I've also
connected it to the idea of the email
I've told
about who sent it to me it was the boss
when I received it about six or seven
years ago what the content was that I
got the job and I explained why I liked
it because I wanted to get the job fine
so I'm on topic and I've told my past
story then I tell a present story and I
trigger I trigger my mind to use
different verbs by using this word here
recently
recently I have been receiving emails
from lots of my students for me to
language usually saying that they are
extremely happy because they have
received the English test scores that
they need it I really enjoy receiving
these emails because the students are
overjoyed and it means that they can
stay in Australia or migrate from their
country to another country to work or
into university the content of the
emails is usually very emotional and
full of smiley faces and exclamation
marks I love receiving those types of
emails so I've used a present perfect
continuous verb a present simple a
present perfect a past tense a present
simple present simple present simple
present simple sorry he's a modal verb
present simple present simple by this
stage the examiners thinking holy moly I
have to give this guy a 9 because he
just used a range of past tense verbs
now he's using a range of present tense
verbs but it's not over yet mister
examiner because I'm going to tell you a
future story and I'm going to trigger my
brain to tell a fib see I'm going to
trigger my brain to tell a future story
by using this little phrase in the
future I would like to receive an email
from Robert Sapolsky who is one of my
favorite academics he's an evolutionary
biologist and primatologist I wrote to
him a long time ago but he never replied
it was a piece of fan mail I guess so
yes if if he replied I would be
extremely ecstatic as I'd love it if he
received my email and appreciated it
by now the IELTS examiner pretty much
cannot give me a score below eight
I mean if as long as my pronunciation is
good and my grammars straight by telling
these three stories using all of these
different verb tenses and now in my
future stories I've used a range of
modal verbs which are really quite
tricky to use but I would like to
receive ears is past tense that's fine
past tense past tense I've mixed it up a
little bit
conditionals if he replied I would be
ecstatic I would love it if he received
and appreciated so it's pretty
straightforward if you use this system
and again why would it get an IELTS nein
well as long as you're as long as you
speak fluently here this is structure or
coherence structure the structures there
because of the three stories one of the
things that I see IELTS examiner's do
which is terrible if you're an IELTS
examiner's they get their task card they
have no strategy and they'll talk about
one story and what they will do is that
would just go round and round and round
and round in circles they'll say once I
received an email from my girlfriend and
it was really nice and so the email was
from my girlfriend and I was very happy
when I received it and yeah and and my
girlfriend sent Ben the email and it was
it was and the IELTS examiner's like oh
no this is terrible there's no
vocabulary there's no mixture of grammar
it's just going there's no structure
round and round and round and of course
the story lexical resource or vocabulary
remember all of those verbs and here the
grammar those verbs as well this one
pronunciation you might require some
feedback from e to language comm if you
do feel like you need that so let's try
it
actually it's IPPF
I've just introduced the introduction so
I'm going to give you one minute to
prepare and on your piece of paper in
front of you we're going to do this I
want you to speak for two minutes
on your piece of paper I want you to
write this down you can memorize the
introduction if you like today I would
like to talk about three different
emails but on your piece of paper I want
you to write in the past and your first
point okay in the past and your first
point whatever your past email
experience is then I want you to write
recently and one that's happened
recently or is happening now and a
future email from somebody you would
like okay I'm going to give you one
minute to prepare and two minutes to
speak your preparation time starts now
okay you now have two minutes to tell me
your three story speak at a moderate
play at the moderate pace speak clearly
and split your stories into three one
pass one present one future your two
minutes starts now
that's just over one minute you have
fifty seconds left
and stop that's two minutes how was that
was it helpful I personally I think
there's really no other way to do this
it speaking about one email for two
minutes is just good luck that's that's
really tough now what I want you to do
is into the comment section below I want
you to give yourself a score out of nine
I want you to think about how you went
in terms of fluency how smoothly you
spoke in terms of coherence or structure
of your speech how good was your
vocabulary did you use lots of different
verbs and your grammar was your your
verb tenses your articles prepositions
everything okay and your printer excuse
me your pronunciation so give yourself a
score from IELTS four to IELTS nine and
put it into the comments below I'll be
interested to read them to see what you
think of that by the way I should just
mention here if you are struggling with
your IELTS please stop trying to do it
by yourself this is a really tricky test
language is a really tricky Beast if you
need help check out eetu language comm
check out the packages we have where we
give you feedback and tutorials and
methods and strategies and all sorts of
stuff as well as live classes every
night of the working week cool all right
let's do another one I want you to try
again this time I'm not going to show
you the section am i I can't remember
this time this is your task card here
this is your task card just let me see
what I've got yes we're going to do it
again the task card says talk about an
interesting neighbor you have had you
should say this person is how often you
see him or her how long you have known
him or her and explain why you think
this person is interesting again you're
going to have to talk about three people
so I want you to use these notes let's
do one more
you have one minute to prepare starting
from now
you now have two minutes to tell me
three great stories about an interesting
neighbor starting now
that's one minute you have one minute
left
and stop that's two minutes how did you
go was that did it make it easier again
type into the chat below the comments
section what you believe you would have
scored out of nine and while you're
there please click like and subscribe to
this channel so you don't miss out on
any of the videos we produce okay
someone in the YouTube chat just asked a
good question and said Jay this PPF
strategy won't work for all topics what
happens for example if it says talk
about a person you admire okay well
let's just do this let's see how this
can work you need to be creative but
talk about okay let's change it a person
whoopsie sorry my writings terrible
person you add my yeah okay a person you
admire so we want to talk about the past
president and the future so in the past
I would talk about my grandmother
okay she's recently deceased but she is
someone that I admired so I could talk
about my grandmother presently I'll talk
about my boss I admire my boss okay in
the future I would like to admire my
children or my child okay you have to be
creative with this you if it talks about
a book talk about it your favorite book
talk about your favorite book as a child
a book you're currently reading and talk
about a book that you would like to read
by a new author let's keep thinking of
different examples what about if it says
I don't know talk about what was mine
what was mine I can't remember my topic
from my when I did the IELTS ah no my
topic was talk about an experience that
made me happen that made me angry that's
right because it was quite a personal
one so sure I could talk about when I
was six years old and my brother stole
my bicycle that made me angry
present recently I've been having
arguments with a colleague at work
and in the future maybe I would say I
don't want to be angry any anymore
with people and I could talk about how
I'll use a strategy to not be angry or
something like that again you're not
speaking off topic there is no such
criterion about speaking off topic of
course if you start talking about your
favorite day at the beach when they've
asked you about being angry yes the
examiner is going to mark you down on
vocabulary but only because you're
completely off topic as long as you're
around the topic it's fine there's
nothing the examiner can do they're just
listening to your grammar vocabulary
fluency pronunciation and structure
that's it so again just be creative it
also raises another interesting point
that I'd like to talk to you about which
is and I'm just being reminded from when
I did my IELTS is you don't need to tell
the truth this is not a test of honesty
or anything like that it this is a test
of just language skills and you're
telling a story and stories are often
untrue you're not being dishonest at all
by doing this like for example let's say
that talk about a book that you would
like to read in the future maybe I I
would like to read a book that I'm going
to write in the future whatever it
doesn't need to be truthful you can just
let your mind go with the story
try not to restrict yourself or be too
worried about being honest with this
IELTS examiner the IELTS examiner
doesn't care if you're telling the truth
or not the IELTS examiner just cares
again about your vocab grammar
pronunciation fluency and structure
that's it cool right now what did my
notes look like so this is what my notes
looked like on test day and I wouldn't I
wouldn't have that I probably I would
just memorize the introduction and I
would just have this so talking about my
neighbors so in the past I had a
fabulous neighbor named John this was
when I was about six years old he was
the most lovely lovely man that I've
ever met I used to go up and work for
him in his garden because he was
actually
quadriplegic and he was in a wheelchair
we became extremely close friends and I
used to visit him every single day after
school I knew him until he died which
was about three years ago then I'll move
on to my present story more recently my
next-door neighbor is a girl named
Kristen she's very lovely she rides a
red Vespa and she's extremely trendy
sometimes she I see her smoking
cigarettes and drinking coffee at the
front of the cafe we often have chats
about what we're doing with our jobs bla
bla bla bla bla future in the future I
would like to have no neighbors at all
to be quite honest I would love to live
in the countryside one of the good
things about living in the countryside
is that you do not have to have close
neighbors so you don't have to worry
about music or hearing people shout at
each other or whatever it is again I'm
just being creative I'm just letting the
the words come to me cool alright let's
move on to part three part three is
where you discuss big ideas with the
examiner I also call it the discussion
but the key here is that you want to be
interesting and philosophical and
fascinating you want to walk out of that
IELTS examination and you want the IELTS
examiner to go whoa that guy is really
interesting or that girl is really smart
or she has really interesting ideas you
need let's face it
IELTS you're speaking to a human being
right and you want to move that human
being emotionally if you can do that by
being interesting by being deep even by
being emotional and sometimes it's gonna
be hard because you're going to I don't
know things will come up in this exam
like I just discussed my neighbor who I
was friends with for example just do
that it's fine
try not to restrict yourself move that
IELTS examiner to give you the you know
to go from the 7 to the 8th so how do we
do this well let's just do a bit of
practice this really
is just deep conversation so one of the
questions that follows on from the task
card might be something like this do you
think you should be friends with your
neighbors and what you do here is you
apply the strategy that we looked at in
part one which was to simply elaborate
but also be philosophical and deep so
let's just do this I'm just gonna give
you twenty seconds to answer this
question your time starts now
the question - do you think people were
more or less friendly with their
neighbors in the past 20 seconds starts
now
question three do you think neighbors
are more important in the countryside or
the city 20 seconds starts now
you
cool alright guys if you need help with
any part of your IELTS do check out WWE
to language comm you can sign up for
free or you can be adventurous and sign
up for one of our paid packages which
will be extremely helpful for you when
you do take your test cool that's all
from me for now what I'll do now is go
to the chat and answer some of your
questions as for the rest of you if
you're on YouTube as I said please click
like please leave a comment and do feel
free to subscribe alright